Update Learn form validation (#36481)
mdn/content: files/en-us/learn/forms/form_validation/index.md

There are two different types of client-side validation that you'll encounter on the web:

- **HTML form validation**

>   Using HTML form attributes to define which form controls are required and the format user entered data must conform to to be valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  HTML form attributes can define which form controls are required and which format the user-entered data must be in to be valid.
```

- **JavaScript form validation**
  JavaScript is generally included to enhance or customize HTML form validation.

> Client side validation can be accomplished with little to no JavaScript. HTML validation is faster than JavaScript, but is less customizable than JavaScript validation. It is generally recommended to begin your forms using robust HTML features, then enhance the user experience with JavaScript as needed. .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Client side validation can be accomplished with little to no JavaScript. HTML validation is faster than JavaScript, but is less customizable than JavaScript validation. It is generally recommended to begin your forms using robust HTML features, then enhance the user experience with JavaScript as needed.
```

If the data entered in a form field follows all of the rules specified by the attributes applied to the field, it is considered valid. If not, it is considered invalid.

When an element is valid, the following things are true:

- The element matches the {{cssxref(":valid")}} CSS pseudo-class, which lets you apply a specific style to valid elements. The control will also match {{cssxref(":user-invalid")}} if the user has interacted with the control, and may match other UI pseudo-classes, such as {{cssxref(":in-range")}}, depending on the input type and attributes.
- If the user tries to send the data, the browser will submit the form, provided there is nothing else stopping it from doing so (e.g., JavaScript).

When an element is invalid, the following things are true:

- The element matches the {{cssxref(":invalid")}} CSS pseudo-class. If the user has interacted with the control, it also matches the {{cssxref(":user-invalid")}} CSS pseudo-class. Other UI pseudo-classes may also match, such as {{cssxref(":out-of-range")}}, depending on the error. These let you apply a specific style to invalid elements.

> - If the user tries to send the data, the browser will block the form and display an error message. The error message will differ depending on the type of error. The [Constraint Validation API](#the_constraint_validation_api) is described below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the user tries to send the data, the browser will block the form submission and display an error message. The error message will differ depending on the type of error. The [Constraint Validation API](#the_constraint_validation_api) is described below.
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("Simple_start_file", "100%", 80)}}

To begin, make a copy of the [`fruit-start.html` file found on Github](https://github.com/mdn/learning-area/blob/main/html/forms/form-validation/fruit-start.html) in a new directory on your hard drive.

### The required attribute

A common HTML validation feature is the [`required`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/required) attribute.
Add this attribute to an input to make an element mandatory.
When this attribute is set, the element matches the {{cssxref(':required')}} UI pseudo-class and the form won't submit, displaying an error message on submission, if the input is empty.
While empty, the input will also be considered invalid, matching the {{cssxref(':invalid')}} UI pseudo-class.

If any radio button in a same-named group has the `required` attribute, one of the radio buttons in that group must be checked for the group to be valid; the checked radio doesn't have to be the one with the attribute set.

> [!NOTE]

> > Only require users to input data you actually need: For example, why do you really need to know someone's gender or title?

Reviewer: Good one, small reword if you like it:

```suggestion
> Only require users to input data you need: For example, is it really necessary to know someone's gender or title?
```

</form>
```

> We added `(required)` to the {{htmlelement("label")}} to inform the user that the {{htmlelement("input")}} is required. Indicating to the user when form fields are required is not only good user experience, it is required by WCAG [accessibility](/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility) guidelines.

Reviewer: Do you want to put it in quotes to show it's about text and not code? 

```suggestion
We added "(required)" to the {{htmlelement("label")}} to inform the user that the {{htmlelement("input")}} is required. Indicating to the user when form fields are required is not only good user experience, it is required by WCAG [accessibility](/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility) guidelines.
```
